README.md, before:

<h2 align="center" >Open Bachelors in Computer Science </h2>
<p align="center"><i>
  This repository consists of free online courses you can take which are equivalent to a bachelor's degree in Karachi.</i>
</p>

# Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Curriculum](#curriculum)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Semester 1](#semester-1)
  - [Semester 2](#semester-2)
  - [Semester 3](#semester-3)
  - [Semester 4](#)
  - [Semester 5](#)
  - [Semester 6](#)
  - [Semester 7](#)
  - [Semester 8](#)
  - [Electives](#)
  - [Final Project](#)
- [Forums](#)
- [Extras](#)
- [FYP](#)
- [Websites](#)

### Introduction

Hello World,

The Open Bachelors in Computer Science curriculum is a compilation of all the courses a standard computer science bachelor's program offers in Karachi. All the courses added in this repo are completely free of cost(till now). Some may require an outlook account to access the paid content/tools for free or for a limited time (2-4 months).This list also includes non-cs courses too i.e pakistan studies,communication skills,Islamic Studies etc.

The main reason behind creating this repository is to provide an extra option for students who are not satisfied with their university's course content, course is not offered in their university or for students who are just looking for a different source to clarify their concepts.All the courses added below have high ratings from websites like class-central,reviews.com,mooc-list etc.These courses were compiled my me alone during my 4 year bachelors which has now come to an end ,due to which i have decided to upload all the free content that has helped me survive these 4 years at github.There are no restrictions,you can take the entire courses or only the topics you require.

### Curriculum

The BS Computer Science program provides understanding of the fundamental and advanced concepts of Computer Science. The aim is to prepare graduates who can analyze, design and develop effective software systems.A standard BS(CS) program is of 140 credit hours. With courses divided in 4 different categories Computing Courses, Computer Science Courses, General Education Courses, University Elective Courses. Divided in 8 semesters with Electives and a Final Project.

### Prerequisites
  - Should have completed High School education.If not you'll have to spend some months on [Khanacademy](https://www.khanacademy.org/).
  - Should be fluent in english.Almost all of the courses are in English.
  - Should have a good internet connection for high-quality videos(for videos with code walkthroughs).
  - Should have minimum of 4GB ram, 80GB free space, 1.6 GHz or faster processor(dual-core)

### Semester 1

**Introduction To Computing**
  
   - [Internet 101 | Khanacademy](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-science/internet-intro).
   - [How Computer Work | Khanacademy](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-science/how-computers-work2).
   - [CS101 | Stanford](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/Engineering/CS101/Summer2014/about).

**Introduction To Programming**

1. For Python

     - [Introduction to Computer Science | MITx](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-mitx-6-00-1x-11)
  
2. For C programming

      - [Programming Basics | IIT](https://www.edx.org/course/programming-basics?source=aw&awc=6798_1528906423_b242accde268c243ea5321a6de79f08c)
  
3. For All Programming Languages
   
      - [HarvardX CS50](https://courses.edx.org/courses/course-v1:HarvardX+CS50+X/course/ )
  
**Applied Physics**

- [Introduction to Physics | Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-physics--ph100)
- [Classical Mechanics | MIT](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-01sc-classical-mechanics-fall-2016/index.htm)

**Calculus I**
  - [Essence of calculus | 3Blue1Brown Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZHQObOWTQDMsr9K-rj53DwVRMYO3t5Yr)
  - [Calculus 1 | PatrickJMT Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL58C7BA6C14FD8F48)
  - [Single Variable Calculus | MIT](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-01sc-single-variable-calculus-fall-2010/index.htm)
  
**English Language**
  - [Elementary English | Virtual University](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKyB9RYzaFRjTPgVJzCrVC_izgiVR3SvV)
      
### Semester 2
   
**Object Oriented Programming**

1. For Python

    - [Object-oriented Programming in Python: Create Your Own Adventure Game | Futurelearn](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/object-oriented-principles)
  
2. For Java
  
    - [Object Oriented Programming | IIT Bombay](https://www.edx.org/course/object-oriented-programming?source=aw&awc=6798_1528996031_2993aacc057471e67e43845b7592a243&utm_source=aw&utm_medium=affiliate_partner&utm_content=text-link&utm_term=301045_https%3A%2F%2Fwww.class-central.com%2FP)
  
    - [Object Oriented Programming | UC San Diego](https://www.coursera.org/learn/object-oriented-java?siteID=SAyYsTvLiGQ-ZmE2wVgxLPh1hnNeM._Nzg&utm_content=10&utm_medium=partners&utm_source=linkshare&utm_campaign=SAyYsTvLiGQ)
  
**Basic Electronics**

1. Basic Electronics | NPTEL

   - [Basic Electronics | Lectures](https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc18_ee10/preview)
   - [Basic Electronics | Course Outline](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLzJaFd3A7DZsA8xZg3tgoshboIIBY98cB)

2. Circuit Theory | VU

   - [Circuit Theory | Lectures](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL72FC7D3035D64E75)
   - [Circuit Theory | Course Outline](http://ocw.vu.edu.pk/CourseOverview.aspx?cat=Physics&course=PHY301)

**Discreate Mathematics**

- [Discrete Math | TheTrevTutor](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDDGPdw7e6Ag1EIznZ-m-qXu4XX3A0cIz)
- [Discreate Math | IP University CSE/IT](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v3sN2bHnbk0&t=0s&list=PLG9aCp4uE-s0vnFDwrmKRBxxkSzuUv6TF&index=6)

**Pakistan Studies**
2. Pakistan Studies | VU

   - [Pakistan Studies | Lectures](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dCruT4g-1xw&list=PL728DC4B0EDBC8E04)
   - [Pakistan Studies | Course Outline](http://ocw.vu.edu.pk/CourseDetails.aspx?cat=humanities+distribution&course=pak301)


### Semester 3

**Multivariable Calculus**

- [Multivariable Calculus | KhanAcademy](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/multivariable-calculus)
- [Multivariable Calculus | PatrickJMT](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLF83D74BA4DE75897)
- [Multivariable Calculus | MIT](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-02sc-multivariable-calculus-fall-2010/) 

**Data Structure and Algorithms**

1. For C++, Java, and Python

   - [Data Structures Fundamentals | UC San Diego](https://www.edx.org/course/data-structures-fundamentals-uc-san-diegox-algs201x)

2. For C++
   - [Data Structures | Mycodeschool](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2_aWCzGMAwI3W_JlcBbtYTwiQSsOTa6P)
 
3. For Python
   - [Python Data Structures](https://www.coursera.org/learn/python-data)
   - [Python Data Structures and BST](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLEJyjB1oGzx3iTZvOVedkT8nZ2cG105U7)

Commit message:

added stats and communication skills

README.md, after:

<h2 align="center" >Open Bachelors in Computer Science </h2>
<p align="center"><i>
  This repository consists of free online courses you can take which are equivalent to a bachelor's degree in Karachi.</i>
</p>

# Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Curriculum](#curriculum)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Semester 1](#semester-1)
  - [Semester 2](#semester-2)
  - [Semester 3](#semester-3)
  - [Semester 4](#)
  - [Semester 5](#)
  - [Semester 6](#)
  - [Semester 7](#)
  - [Semester 8](#)
  - [Electives](#)
  - [Final Project](#)
- [Forums](#)
- [Extras](#)
- [FYP](#)
- [Websites](#)

### Introduction

Hello World,

The Open Bachelors in Computer Science curriculum is a compilation of all the courses a standard computer science bachelor's program offers in Karachi. All the courses added in this repo are completely free of cost(till now). Some may require an outlook account to access the paid content/tools for free or for a limited time (2-4 months).This list also includes non-cs courses too i.e pakistan studies,communication skills,Islamic Studies etc.

The main reason behind creating this repository is to provide an extra option for students who are not satisfied with their university's course content, course is not offered in their university or for students who are just looking for a different source to clarify their concepts.All the courses added below have high ratings from websites like class-central,reviews.com,mooc-list etc.These courses were compiled my me alone during my 4 year bachelors which has now come to an end ,due to which i have decided to upload all the free content that has helped me survive these 4 years; at github.There are no restrictions,you can take the entire courses or only the topics you require.Some of the courses given below may appear in different semesters but the content will mostly be the same.

### Curriculum

The BS Computer Science program provides understanding of the fundamental and advanced concepts of Computer Science. The aim is to prepare graduates who can analyze, design and develop effective software systems.A standard BS(CS) program is of 140 credit hours. With courses divided in 4 different categories Computing Courses, Computer Science Courses, General Education Courses, University Elective Courses. Divided in 8 semesters with Electives and a Final Project.

### Prerequisites
  - Should have completed High School education.If not you'll have to spend some months on [Khanacademy](https://www.khanacademy.org/).
  - Should be fluent in english.Almost all of the courses are in English.
  - Should have a good internet connection for high-quality videos(for videos with code walkthroughs).
  - Should have minimum of 4GB ram, 80GB free space, 1.6 GHz or faster processor(dual-core)

### Semester 1

**Introduction To Computing**
  
   - [Internet 101 | Khanacademy](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-science/internet-intro).
   - [How Computer Work | Khanacademy](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-science/how-computers-work2).
   - [CS101 | Stanford](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/Engineering/CS101/Summer2014/about).

**Introduction To Programming**

1. For Python

     - [Introduction to Computer Science | MITx](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-mitx-6-00-1x-11)
  
2. For C programming

      - [Programming Basics | IIT](https://www.edx.org/course/programming-basics?source=aw&awc=6798_1528906423_b242accde268c243ea5321a6de79f08c)
  
3. For All Programming Languages
   
      - [HarvardX CS50](https://courses.edx.org/courses/course-v1:HarvardX+CS50+X/course/ )
  
**Applied Physics**

- [Introduction to Physics | Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-physics--ph100)
- [Classical Mechanics | MIT](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/physics/8-01sc-classical-mechanics-fall-2016/index.htm)

**Calculus I**
  - [Essence of calculus | 3Blue1Brown Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZHQObOWTQDMsr9K-rj53DwVRMYO3t5Yr)
  - [Calculus 1 | PatrickJMT Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL58C7BA6C14FD8F48)
  - [Single Variable Calculus | MIT](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-01sc-single-variable-calculus-fall-2010/index.htm)
  
**English Language**
  - [Elementary English | Virtual University](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLKyB9RYzaFRjTPgVJzCrVC_izgiVR3SvV)
      
### Semester 2
   
**Object Oriented Programming**

1. For Python

    - [Object-oriented Programming in Python: Create Your Own Adventure Game | Futurelearn](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/object-oriented-principles)
  
2. For Java
  
    - [Object Oriented Programming | IIT Bombay](https://www.edx.org/course/object-oriented-programming?source=aw&awc=6798_1528996031_2993aacc057471e67e43845b7592a243&utm_source=aw&utm_medium=affiliate_partner&utm_content=text-link&utm_term=301045_https%3A%2F%2Fwww.class-central.com%2FP)
  
    - [Object Oriented Programming | UC San Diego](https://www.coursera.org/learn/object-oriented-java?siteID=SAyYsTvLiGQ-ZmE2wVgxLPh1hnNeM._Nzg&utm_content=10&utm_medium=partners&utm_source=linkshare&utm_campaign=SAyYsTvLiGQ)
  
**Basic Electronics**

1. Basic Electronics | NPTEL

   - [Basic Electronics | Lectures](https://onlinecourses.nptel.ac.in/noc18_ee10/preview)
   - [Basic Electronics | Course Outline](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLzJaFd3A7DZsA8xZg3tgoshboIIBY98cB)

2. Circuit Theory | VU

   - [Circuit Theory | Lectures](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL72FC7D3035D64E75)
   - [Circuit Theory | Course Outline](http://ocw.vu.edu.pk/CourseOverview.aspx?cat=Physics&course=PHY301)

**Discreate Mathematics**

- [Discrete Math | TheTrevTutor](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDDGPdw7e6Ag1EIznZ-m-qXu4XX3A0cIz)
- [Discreate Math | IP University CSE/IT](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v3sN2bHnbk0&t=0s&list=PLG9aCp4uE-s0vnFDwrmKRBxxkSzuUv6TF&index=6)

**Pakistan Studies**

   - [Pakistan Studies | Lectures](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dCruT4g-1xw&list=PL728DC4B0EDBC8E04)
   - [Pakistan Studies | Course Outline](http://ocw.vu.edu.pk/CourseDetails.aspx?cat=humanities+distribution&course=pak301)
   
**Probability and Statistics**

   - [Statistics and probability | Khanacademy](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/statistics-probability)
   - [Probability - The Science of Uncertainty and Data | MIT](https://www.edx.org/course/probability-the-science-of-uncertainty-and-data)
   - [PROBABILITY & STATISTICS 1 | Michel van Biezen](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLX2gX-ftPVXUWwTzAkOhBdhplvz0fByqV)
   - [PROBABILITY & STATISTICS 2 | Michel van Biezen](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLX2gX-ftPVXXkFVwtkb1cKKJXHEn7Sxld)

**Communication Skills**
   - [Business English Communication Skills | University of Washington IELP](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxbzwyOnbv4fl5u6GJ97TqJfDsU0hfXq4)
   - [Communication Techniques | Stanford Graduate School of Business](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HAnw168huqA)
   
### Semester 3

**Multivariable Calculus**

- [Multivariable Calculus | KhanAcademy](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/multivariable-calculus)
- [Multivariable Calculus | PatrickJMT](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLF83D74BA4DE75897)
- [Multivariable Calculus | MIT](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-02sc-multivariable-calculus-fall-2010/) 

**Data Structure and Algorithms**

1. For C++, Java, and Python

   - [Data Structures Fundamentals | UC San Diego](https://www.edx.org/course/data-structures-fundamentals-uc-san-diegox-algs201x)

2. For C++
   - [Data Structures | Mycodeschool](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2_aWCzGMAwI3W_JlcBbtYTwiQSsOTa6P)
 
3. For Python
   - [Python Data Structures](https://www.coursera.org/learn/python-data)
   - [Python Data Structures and BST](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLEJyjB1oGzx3iTZvOVedkT8nZ2cG105U7)
